Welcome back.
Guys and girls, in this video, we are going to compare cloud formation and terraform.
Just a disclaimer.
This is not a full blown TerraForm course, so I'm not going to go too deep into all the points.
However, I did want to include TerraForm for two reasons.
Number one, I wanted to show you guys and girls how a cloud agnostic infrastructure as code works.
Number two, this could come up in interviews.
So I wanted to have you guys a little bit of idea, like sometimes an interview.
If you know the main points, then it helps you a lot.
All right.
With that being said, let's jump into the comparisons.
So cloud formation is a service, so it only works to provision services.
You cannot spin up other cloud providers.
Infrastructure is in cloud formation.
TerraForm is cloud agnostic.
So as we saw, you can use the same template for GCP, Azure, etc. to spin up different infrastructures.
Cloud formation is free and also the support of automation is included within it.
Support TerraForm is open source.
However, there is enterprise version which has some extra features.
It costs some money and then it includes support, a cloud formation, a manager's state of the infrastructure
using the stack.
So if you want to change it outside of the stack, you have drift, detection, tent, set, all that
stuff.
TerraForm a state is stored in local disk by default.
You can use a remote state if you want.
You do have to tweak some stuff a bit though.
Cloud formation can have wet conditions like you can put a wet step in there and it will wait to have
some steps done or something.
A terraform does not have wet conditions, cloud formation not possible to bring existing resources
into existing stack.
Like if you spun up some infrastructure using console and then you want to include it in some existing
stack, that's not possible.
However, terraform you can import existing resources.
So being said that.
So let me tell you guys and girls my personal opinion again this is my personal opinion.
So you always have to consider your your use case.
So between TerraForm and cloud formation, I actually prefer cloud formation because a terraform is
will always play catch up to all the cloud formation announcements.
Like if cloud formation comes out with a new feature and then TerraForm has to code the APIs and have
to play a little bit of catch up.
And also for most of the companies migrating to cloud like the developer community has so much to learn
already.
Like they have to learn like DevOps, they have to learn all the new stuff in NWC or any other cloud.
So I feel like why put one more layer of learning if some company is migrating to us and they teach
their developers cloud formation, that's that's good enough.
Like why teach them terraform if they're not using multi cloud?
And also I actually believe in using cloud native services because all the blog posts that come out
from any cloud companies, not just NWS, they highlight the best practices and then they will give
you a quick setup guide everything using their cloud native services.
So for cloud formation.
So for our course we did custom resources following a blog post and a couple other things here and there.
Right.
So it's easier for the developers like not only it helps them pass the certification exam because cloud
formation is part of those certification exams.
But it's also easier for them to look up existing solutions, talk to other companies and then implement
those in their current projects.
So another factor is so terraform is open source.
So open source is good, but if you work in enterprise, you know, it's painful to use open source
because any new changes that happens in that codebase, the security has to vet it out.
Right.
They have to make sure that no new vulnerabilities have been introduced with the changes in the open
source.
So that kind of adds an extra overhead.
And then if you go to the paid route, so then you have to fork out some money anyway to get the enterprise
support.
So but anyway, again, to reiterate, these are all my personal.
Opinions based on my experience.
However, please consider your use case, your developer best, their knowledge and everything before
you decide.
All right, guys and girls.
Hopefully this comparison was helpful.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next video by.